One dimension Kinematics with constant velocity and relative motion
=================
23-09-01

Work
-----
Finding the derivative - workbook pages 4 - 5

Does meth work???
----------
$1 + 1 = 2$

Yes it does.

Position - Time graph
----------
Given a linear line on the position - time graph,
the drawn graph has a positive slope, so a positive velocity.

The velocity-time graph will be a constant line. 
To find the distance traveled, you can find the area under the **velocity** - time graph.

> Note that the velocity - time graph says nothing about the absolute position of an object, only the change > in distance from a point, which an be any point

>$\vec{V}_{avg} = \frac{\Delta x}{\Delta t}$
>The average velocity is the change in distance over the change in time.

A steeper line with a negative slope, going down is now drawn on the position - time graph.
This change is reflected as a sudden jump from a constant, positive line, to a constant, negative line on the velocity - time graph. These graphs could represent walking forawrds, and suddenly instantaneously turning around.

Now a more complex graph is given, with curves like a polynomial function.
In the same way as the simple graph, we can find the velocity at any one point by finding the slope at the point on the position - time graph.
By finding, or estimating like how we did in class, the slop at a few points, we can create the velocity - time graph for this more complex position - time graph as well.

Lets establish an equation for this "complex graph":

>$x(t) = t^3 - t^2 + t - 4$ (position - time)

Now we can use mathematical method to find our velocity - time graph.

$dt$ refers to a very small change in t, while $dx$ refers to a very small change in x ( position)
Then also, $\frac{dx}{dt} is the slope at singular point.

>$v(t) = \frac{dx}{dt} = 3 \cdot t^2 - 2 \cdot t + 1 $

How to take the derivative?
-------

>$x(t) = 6 \cdot t^8$

Multiply each coefficient by the power of the term, then take one degree from the power:

>$v(t) = 6 \cdot 8 \cdot t^{8-1} = 48t^7$

Position - Velocity - Acceleration
------
To get from position to velocity, we take the derivative of the positon function
We can also get from velocity to the equation for acceration by taking the derivative again, this time of the velocity graph

>$a(t) = \frac{dv}{dt} = 7 \cdot 48 \cdot t^{7-1} = 336t^6$

Lets do that for our first example as well! ($v(t) = \frac{dx}{dt} = 3 \cdot t^2 - 2 \cdot t + 1 $)

>$a(t) = 2 \cdot 3 \cdot t - 1 \cdot 2 \cdot t^0 = 6t - 2$

yay.


