23-09-01
Vietnam war and Geography
=====================================
Ho Chi Minh trail
------------------------------------

The Ho Chi Minh trail was crucial for the Vietnam War in that the Khmer Rouge was able to keep supply lines and fight the war over the trail, not in Vietnam. This way, US forces would be highly discouraged from fighting/bombing them, as it is not in Vietnam.

Crash Course - Cold war in Asia
------------------------

Ho Chi Minh was "fighting for liberation" from a colonial power, but to the United State's doctrine, they were just another communist state, and worry that their influence will lead other countries in the area to "topple" to communism in the domino effect.

Most americans consider Vietnam to be lyndon johnson's war

> Preventing communism ... Remained the guiding star of American military doctrine

In addition to jungle fighting, there was a large amount of bombing. More bombs were dropped than the Axis and Allied in WW2 on Vietnam. Also, chemical warfare played a big part, such as the infamous Agent Orange.

The Khmer Rouge massacred almost 1/3 of the population.
The war between North and South continued for a while after the american withdrawl, resulting in the North gaining control of Vietnam on the entire peninsula and establishing a communist state in 1975.

The war was lost because "we didn't understand the enemy", as the US was fighting against communist, but the Vietnamese believed they were fighting for Vietnam.

The Cambodia genocide happened from then on, and ended in 1979. It ended when the Vietnamese invaded.

Events timeline
---------

**1960** US advisors (Kennedy)
**1965** Gulf of Tolken Incident/Resolution, Escalation of war (Lyndon Johnson), Operation Rolling Thunder
**1968** 1/2 Million Soldiers, Tet offensive
**1970** (Nixon) Bombing Cambodia (Ho Chi Minh trial)
**1971** Pentagon Papers
**1973** War Powers Act
**1975** Vietnam War Ended
**1975 - 1979** Khmer Rough Cambodian Massace

