
The Khmer Rouge murders - Timothy Williams
========

- The Khmer Rouge rules Cambodia from 1975-97, perpetrating the genocide of of roughly 1 Million people.
- They targeted Muslim, Chinese Vietnamese, and Laotian individuals.
- **Outside** of this 1 million, an additional millino died of Starvation and overwork.

The ruler Sihanok's policy provoked conflict amoungst citizens, especially the communists who sought to overthrow him.

This was complicated by the vietnam war, which involved american soldiers fighting with south vietnam against the communist north.

He was later overthrown by the minister, who allowed americans to bomb the Ho Chi Minh trail, killing thousands of cambodian civiallians in the process.

The Khmer rouge to the public represented mainly a force fighting the american force.

Many cambodians joined the Khmer Rouge, angered by the american bombings. 

After they took power however, they started forcing everyone to work for unrelaistic quotas.


Summary
-----
This video details how the Khmer Rouge rose to power, and what happened after.

One of the main things that was surpirsing after watching this to me was how it sucked being a Khmer soldier as well. 

In 2003, a UN-Cambodian trial took place, only of the highest ranking members. Some of the very same people that killed (lower level KR members), appeared in court as victims, rather than defendants. They gave testimonies on their conditions, and how they were forced to commit atrocities.

As of 2021, only three people recieved convictions.


Article - 11 Years, $300 Million and 3 Convictions. Was the Khmer Rouge Tribunal Worth It? 
=======
(April 2017)

After 300 million, the united nations finally convicted just three men responsible for the KH genocide.

The inefficiency largely stems from the awkard international joint court established between Cambodia and the UN, and other political issues. All the convicted members were sentenced to life in prison.


The prime minister said there will be no further indictments, citing concerns about civil war.

Effects
-----
Even with just three people convicted, this trial thats largely just a show trial has had a profound effect.


What these effects are, however are debated. 

- Some say that it has had a good impact, bring more awareness about Cambodia's past into the lives of the younger generations, and officially validating the suffering of the older generations. Also in 2009 the KR was brought into high school cirricula for the first time.

- Others say that by just convicting 3 people, the trials had dont more harm than good, as not holding everyone accountable does the opposite effect of the second point above.

Overall, it is a very complex situation, and many scenarios will have unforseen implictions. For example as the prime minister said, widespread persecution of former KR members could lead to civil unrest.

